OpenAI provider tutorial (#3085)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-openai.md

- Use Airflow to orchestrate the creation of vector embeddings using OpenAI models, which is especially useful for very large datasets that cannot be processed automatically by vector databases.

## Time to complete

This tutorial takes approximately 15 minutes to complete.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this tutorial, make sure you have an understanding of:

- The basics of the OpenAI API. See [OpenAI Introduction](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction).
- Airflow fundamentals, such as writing DAGs and defining tasks. See [Get started with Apache Airflow](get-started-with-airflow.md).
- Airflow operators. See [Operators 101](what-is-an-operator.md).
- Airflow hooks. See [Hooks 101](what-is-a-hook.md).

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started).
- An OpenAI API key of at least [tier 1](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/rate-limits/usage-tiers).

## Step 1: Configure your Astro project

1. Create a new Astro project:

    ```sh
    $ mkdir astro-openai-tutorial && cd astro-openai-tutorial
    $ astro dev init
    ```

> 2. Add the following install statement to your `requirements.txt` file to install the OpenAI Airflow provider and other supporting packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the following packages to your `requirements.txt` file to install the OpenAI Airflow provider and other supporting packages:
```

## Step 3: Run your DAG

1. Run `astro dev start` in your Astro project to start Airflow and open the Airflow UI at `localhost:8080`.

2. In the Airflow UI, run the `captains_dag` DAG by clicking the play button. Then, provide [Airflow params](airflow-params.md) for:

    - `Question to ask the captain`: The question you want to ask the captains.
    - `captains_to_ask`: A list of captains you want to ask the question to. Make sure to create one line per captain and to provide at least two names.
    - `max_tokens_answer`: The maximum number of tokens available for the answer. 
    - `randomness_of_answer`: The randomness of the answer. The value provided is divided by 10 and given to the `temperature` parameter of the [chat completion endpoint](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation/reproducible-outputs). The scale for the param ranges from 0 to 20, with 0 being the most deterministic and 20 being the most random.

>     ![Screenshot of the Airflow UI showing the successful completion of the `captains_dag` DAG in the Grid view with the Graph tab selected. All 8 captains available were selected to be asked the question, which led to 8 mapped task instances of both the `ask_a_captain` and `get_embeddings` task.](/img/tutorials/airflow-openai_dag_completed.png)

Reviewer: This screenshot feels a little out of place to me. Maybe we should put this one up above after the descriptions of the tasks in the Create your DAG section, and then here have a screenshot of the params form?

In this tutorial you'll use Airflow and the OpenAI Airflow provider to make a call to the [OpenAI API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference) to generate answers to a question you provide, create embeddings of those answers, and plot them in two dimensions. 

## Why use Airflow with OpenAI?

OpenAI offers a variety of powerful model endpoints for different tasks like text or image generation, vector embeddings or translation tasks. These models are used in countless applications, both user-facing, such as chatbots, and internal, for example providing insight into internal knowledge base content.

Integrating OpenAI with Airflow into one end-to-end machine learning pipeline allows you to:

- Use Airflow's [data-driven scheduling](airflow-datasets.md) to run operations using OpenAI model endpoints based on upstream events in your data ecosystem, such as when new user input is ingested or a new dataset is available.
- Send several requests to a model endpoint in parallel based on upstream events in your data ecosystem or user input via [Airflow params](airflow-params.md).

> - Add Airflow features like [retries](rerunning-dags.md#automatically-retry-tasks) and [alerts](error-notifications-in-airflow.md) to your OpenAI operations. For example for handling or monitoring service outages.

Author: I changed this sentence a bit to be more specific, let me know if it works for you :)

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this tutorial, make sure you have an understanding of:

- The basics of the OpenAI API. See [OpenAI Introduction](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction).
- Airflow fundamentals, such as writing DAGs and defining tasks. See [Get started with Apache Airflow](get-started-with-airflow.md).
- Airflow operators. See [Operators 101](what-is-an-operator.md).
- Airflow hooks. See [Hooks 101](what-is-a-hook.md).

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started).
- An OpenAI API key of at least [tier 1](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/rate-limits/usage-tiers).

## Step 1: Configure your Astro project

1. Create a new Astro project:

    ```sh
    $ mkdir astro-openai-tutorial && cd astro-openai-tutorial
    $ astro dev init
    ```

2. Add the following packages to your `requirements.txt` file to install the OpenAI Airflow provider and other supporting packages:

    ```text
    apache-airflow-providers-openai==1.0.0
    openai==0.28.1
    matplotlib==3.8.1
    seaborn==0.13.0
    scikit-learn==1.3.2
    pandas==1.5.3
    numpy==1.26.2
    adjustText==0.8
    ```

> 3. To create an [Airflow connection](connections.md) to OpenAI, add the following environment variables to your `.env` file. Make sure to provide you own OpenAI API key.

Reviewer 2: Seeing OpenAI API all the time, while OpenAPI is also a thing, is making my head spin haha

Author: Hahaha, I had to say "OpenAI API" a couple of times in a talk and a webinar and it was tough not to stumble. 😂

> 3. To create an [Airflow connection](connections.md) to OpenAI, add the following environment variables to your `.env` file. Make sure to provide you own OpenAI API key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To create an [Airflow connection](connections.md) to OpenAI, add the following environment variables to your `.env` file. Make sure to replace `<your-openai-api-key>` with your own OpenAI API key.
```

    ```text
    AIRFLOW_CONN_OPENAI_DEFAULT='{
        "conn_type": "openai",

>         "password": "YOUR OPENAI API KEY",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "password": "<your-openai-api-key>",
```

    }'
    ```

## Step 2: Create your DAG

1. In your `dags` folder, create a file called `captains_dag.py`.

2. Copy the following code into the file.

    <CodeBlock language="python">{captains_dag}</CodeBlock>

    This DAG consists of four tasks to make a simple MLOps pipeline.

>     ![Screenshot of the Airflow UI showing the successful completion of the `captains_dag` DAG in the Grid view with the Graph tab selected. All 8 captains available were selected to be asked the question, which led to 8 mapped task instances of both the `ask_a_captain` and `get_embeddings` task.](/img/tutorials/airflow-openai_dag_completed.png)

Reviewer 2: I'd move this to after the task descriptions.

>     - The `get_captains_list` task fetches the list of captains that the user wants to ask their question to from the input given via [Airflow params](airflow-params.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The `get_captains_list` task fetches the list of Star Trek captains you want to ask your question to. You'll provide the list of captains when you run the DAG through [Airflow params](airflow-params.md).
```
I thought "Captains" was an AI term until I got to the end of the page! (Yes I did skip reviewing the DAG 🤧)

Author: 🤣  I'll see if I can add a 🖖 emoji somewhere

>     - The `ask_a_captain` task uses the [OpenAIHook](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-openai/stable/_api/airflow/providers/openai/hooks/openai/index.html) to connect to the OpenAI API and use the [chat completion endpoint](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation/chat-completions-api) to leverage the `gpt-3-turbo` model to generate answers to the question provided by the user. This task is [dynamically mapped](dynamic-tasks.md) over the list of captains to generate one dynamically mapped task instance per captain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The `ask_a_captain` task uses the [OpenAIHook](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-openai/stable/_api/airflow/providers/openai/hooks/openai/index.html) to connect to the OpenAI API. It then uses the [chat completion endpoint](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation/chat-completions-api) generate answers to the question you provide. This task is [dynamically mapped](dynamic-tasks.md) over the list of captains to generate one dynamically mapped task instance per captain.
```

    - The `get_embeddings` task is defined using the [OpenAIEmbeddingOperator](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-openai/stable/operators/openai.html) to generate vector embeddings of the answers generated by the upstream `ask_a_captain` task. This task is dynamically mapped over the list of answers to retrieve one set of embeddings per answer. This pattern allows for efficient parallelization of the vector embedding generation.
    - The `plot_embeddings` task takes the embeddings created by the upstream task and performs dimensionality reduction using [PCA](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.decomposition.PCA.html) to plot the embeddings in two dimensions. 

## Step 3: Run your DAG

> 1. Run `astro dev start` in your Astro project to start Airflow and open the Airflow UI at `localhost:8080`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run `astro dev start` in your Astro project to start Airflow, then open the Airflow UI at `localhost:8080`.
```

2. In the Airflow UI, run the `captains_dag` DAG by clicking the play button. Then, provide [Airflow params](airflow-params.md) for:

    - `Question to ask the captain`: The question you want to ask the captains.

>     - `captains_to_ask`: A list of captains you want to ask the question to. Make sure to create one line per captain and to provide at least two names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `captains_to_ask`: A list of Star Trek captains you want to ask the question to. Make sure to create one line per captain and to provide at least two names.
```
